New page: <line-style> (#26487)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/line-style/index.md

## Syntax

```css
<line-style> = none | hidden | dotted | dashed | solid | double | groove | ridge | inset | outset
```

## Values

The `<line-style>` enumerated type is specified using one of the values listed below:

- `none`
  - : Displays no line and the computed value of the line width will be `0`, even if the specified value is something else. In the case of table cell and border collapsing, the `none` value has the _lowest_ priority: if any other conflicting border is set, it will be displayed. Similar to the `hidden` value.
- `hidden`
  - : Displays no line. The computed width of the line will be `0`, even if the specified width value is something else. In the case of table cell and border collapsing, the `hidden` value has the _highest_ priority: if any other conflicting border is set, it won't be displayed. Similar to the `none` value, but is not a valid value for outline styles.
- `dotted`
  - : Displays a series of rounded dots. The radius of the dots is half the computed value of the line's width. The spacing of the dots is not defined by the specification and is implementation-specific.

> - `dashed`
>   - : Displays a series of short square-ended dashes or line segments. The exact size and length of the segments are not defined by the specification and are implementation-specific.
> - `solid`
>   - : Displays a single, straight, solid line.
> - `double`
>   - : Displays two straight lines that add up to the pixel size defined by the line's width.
> - `groove`
>   - : Displays a border with a carved appearance. It is the opposite of `ridge`.
> - `ridge`
>   - : Displays a border with an extruded appearance. It is the opposite of `groove`.
> - `inset`
>   - : Displays a border that makes the element appear embedded. It is the opposite of `outset`. When applied to a table cell border and {{cssxref("border-collapse")}} is set to `collapsed`, this value behaves like `groove`.
> - `outset`
>   - : Displays a border that makes the element appear embossed. It is the opposite of `inset`. When applied to a table cell with {{cssxref("border-collapse")}} set to `collapsed`, this value behaves like `ridge`.
> 
> > **Note:** `<outline-style>`, used as the value for {{cssxref("outline")}} and {{cssxref("outline-style")}}, is similar to `<line-style>`, but does not support `hidden` and includes an `auto` value. When `auto` is set, the user-agent defined line-style is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `dashed`
  - : Displays a series of short square-ended dashes or line segments. The exact size and length of the segments are not defined by the specification and are implementation-specific.
- `solid`
  - : Displays a single, straight solid line.
- `double`
  - : Displays two straight lines with some space between them. The length of the lines adds up to the pixel size defined by the line's width.
- `groove`
  - : Displays a border with a carved appearance. This value is the opposite of `ridge`.
- `ridge`
  - : Displays a border with an extruded appearance. This value is the opposite of `groove`.
- `inset`
  - : Displays a border that makes the element appear embedded. This value is the opposite of `outset`. When applied to a table cell border and {{cssxref("border-collapse")}} is set to `collapsed`, this value behaves like `groove`.
- `outset`
  - : Displays a border that makes the element appear embossed. This value is the opposite of `inset`. When applied to a table cell with {{cssxref("border-collapse")}} set to `collapsed`, this value behaves like `ridge`.

> **Note:** When `<outline-style>` is used as the value type for {{cssxref("outline")}} and {{cssxref("outline-style")}} properties, it is similar to `<line-style>`, but does not support `hidden` and includes the `auto` value. When `auto` is set, the user-agent defined `<line-style>` value is used.
```
"When `auto` is set" - does this mean when `auto` is specified for `<outline-style>`?

## Examples

> The first example demonstrates the appearance of all the `<line-style>` values. The second example demonstrates how some colors may display in unexpected ways.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first example demonstrates all the `<line-style>` keyword values. The second example demonstrates how some line style colors may display in unexpected ways.
```

> ### Line styles
> 
> This example shows all the `<line-style>` values as values of the CSS {{cssxref("border-style")}} and {{cssxref("column-rule-style")}} properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Defining line styles

This example shows all the `<line-style>` values as values for the CSS {{cssxref("border-style")}} and {{cssxref("column-rule-style")}} properties.
```

#### HTML

> We have {{HTMLElement("div")}}s, each with a class representing the `<line-style>` that is being demonstrated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example uses multiple `<div>`elements, each with a class representing the `<line-style>` value that is being demonstrated.
```

```html
<div class="<line-style>">

>   <p><line-style></li>
>   <p>a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z</li>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <p><line-style></p>
  <p>a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z</p>
```

</div>
```

```html hidden
<div class="none">
  <p>none</p>
  <p>a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z</p>
</div>
<div class="hidden">
  <p>hidden</p>
  <p>a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z</p>
</div>
<div class="dotted">
  <p>dotted</p>
  <p>a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z</p>
</div>
<div class="dashed">
  <p>dashed</p>
  <p>a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z</p>
</div>
<div class="solid">
  <p>solid</p>
  <p>a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z</p>
</div>
<div class="double">
  <p>double</p>
  <p>a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z</p>
</div>
<div class="groove">
  <p>groove</p>
  <p>a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z</p>
</div>
<div class="ridge">
  <p>ridge</p>
  <p>a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z</p>
</div>
<div class="inset">
  <p>inset</p>
  <p>a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z</p>
</div>
<div class="outset">
  <p>outset</p>
  <p>a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z</p>
</div>
```

#### CSS

> We declare a width of `7px` and style of `double` for the border and the column-rule for all the paragraphs. We then override `double` values by providing a different `<line-style>` value the `border-style` and `column-rule-style` properties of each paragraph.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the CSS for this example, the border and the column-rule for all the `<p>` elements is defined to have a width of `7px` and the style value of `double`. For each paragraph, the `double` values are then overridden by specifying a different `<line-style>` value for the `border-style` and `column-rule-style` properties.
```

```css hidden
div {
  display: flex;
  gap: 1em;
  list-style: none;
  align-items: center;
}
div:first-of-type {
  display: none;
}

p:first-of-type {
  text-align: center;
  line-height: 5em;
}
p {
  width: 10em;
  height: 5em;
  background-color: palegoldenrod;
}
```

```css
p {
  padding: 5px;
  border: double 7px #bada55;
}
p + p {
  columns: 3;
  column-gap: 20px;
  column-rule: double 7px;
  border-color: #000000;
}
.none p {
  border-style: none;
  column-rule-style: none;
}
.hidden p {
  border-style: hidden;
  column-rule-style: hidden;
}
.dotted p {
  border-style: dotted;
  column-rule-style: dotted;
}
.dashed p {
  border-style: dashed;
  column-rule-style: dashed;
}
.solid p {
  border-style: solid;
  column-rule-style: solid;
}
.double p {
  border-style: double;
  column-rule-style: double;
}
.groove p {
  border-style: groove;
  column-rule-style: groove;
}
.ridge p {
  border-style: ridge;
  column-rule-style: ridge;
}
.inset p {
  border-style: inset;
  column-rule-style: inset;
}
.outset p {
  border-style: outset;
  column-rule-style: outset;
}
```

> #### Results
> 
> {{EmbedLiveSample("Line_styles", "500", "600")}}
> 
> Notice the black border is not always black. The next example demonstrates line-style and color choice.
> 
> ### Line style colors
> 
> With some line-style values, the color may not be what you would expect. To create the required "3D" effect of `groove,` `ridge`, `inset`, and `outset`, when displaying these values in black or white, user agents display use different color calculations than any other color-line combinations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample("Line_styles", "500", "800")}}

Notice that the black border is not always black.

### Defining line styles and colors

This example demonstrates line-style and color choice. With some `<line-style>` keyword values, the color of the line may not be what you expect. To create the required "3D" effect of `groove,` `ridge`, `inset`, and `outset` styles when displaying these values in black or white, user agents use different color calculations than any other color-line combinations.
```

#### HTML

> Each {{HTMLElement("div")}} has a different `border-color` set as an inline [`style`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/style). For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example uses multiple `<div>`elements, each with a different `border-color` set as an inline [`style`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/style).
```

```html-nolint hidden
<section>
```

```html
<div style="border-color: #000000"></div>
```

```html hidden
<div style="border-color: #000001"></div>
<div style="border-color: #ffffff"></div>

<div style="border-color: #ff00ff"></div>
<div style="border-color: #ffff00"></div>
<div style="border-color: #00ffff"></div>

<div style="border-color: #cc33cc"></div>
<div style="border-color: #cccc33"></div>
<div style="border-color: #33cccc"></div>

<div style="border-color: #ff0000"></div>
<div style="border-color: #00ff00"></div>
<div style="border-color: #0000ff"></div>

<div style="border-color: #cc3333"></div>
<div style="border-color: #33cc33"></div>
<div style="border-color: #3333cc"></div>

<div style="border-color: #993333"></div>
<div style="border-color: #339933"></div>
<div style="border-color: #333399"></div>
</section>
```

#### CSS

> The four sides of each list item have a different `<line-style>` value, and each list item has a different {{cssxref("color_value", "&lt;color>")}} value. We use [generated content](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/content) to display the CSS declared inline.

Reviewer: the "list item" is not defined in the HTML

```css hidden
section {
  display: flex;
  flex-wrap: wrap;
  gap: 1em;
  text-transform: uppercase;
  font-family: monospace;
}
```

```css
div {
  border-width: 10px;
  border-style: inset groove ridge outset;
  padding: 5px;
}
div::before {
  content: attr(style);
}
```

> #### Results
> 
> {{EmbedLiveSample("Line_style_colors", "500", "400")}}
> 
> Notice that the almost-black `#000001` may be different from actual black, and that the contrast between the dark and light edges is more noticable when using lighter colors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample("Line_style_colors", "500", "400")}}

Notice that the almost-black color of `#000001` may be different from the actual black, and the contrast between the dark and light edges is more noticeable when using lighter colors.
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

> - [CSS background and borders](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Backgrounds_and_Borders) module
> - [CSS multi-column layout](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Columns) module
> - [CSS Basic User Interface](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Basic_User_Interface) module

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [CSS backgrounds and borders](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Backgrounds_and_Borders) module
- [CSS basic user interface](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Basic_User_Interface) module
- [CSS multi-column layout](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Columns) module
```

---
title: <line-style>
slug: Web/CSS/line-style
page-type: css-type
browser-compat: css.types.line-style
spec-urls: https://drafts.csswg.org/css-backgrounds/#typedef-line-style
---

{{CSSRef}}

> The **`<line-style>`** {{glossary("enumerated")}} value type represents keyword values that define the style of a line, or the lack of a line. The `<line-style>` keyword values are used in the following longhand and shorthand [border](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/css_backgrounds_and_borders) and [column](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Columns) properties:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`<line-style>`** {{glossary("enumerated")}} value type represents keyword values that define the style of a line, or the lack of a line. The `<line-style>` keyword values are used in the following longhand and shorthand [border](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Backgrounds_and_Borders) and [column](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Columns) properties:
```

- {{cssxref("border")}}, {{cssxref("border-style")}}
- {{cssxref("border-block")}}, {{cssxref("border-block-style")}}

> - {{cssxref("border-block-end")}}, {{cssxref("border-block-end-style")}

Author: ```suggestion
- {{cssxref("border-block-end")}}, {{cssxref("border-block-end-style")}}
```

- `inset`
  - : Displays a border that makes the element appear embedded. This value is the opposite of `outset`. When applied to a table cell border and {{cssxref("border-collapse")}} is set to `collapsed`, this value behaves like `groove`.
- `outset`
  - : Displays a border that makes the element appear embossed. This value is the opposite of `inset`. When applied to a table cell with {{cssxref("border-collapse")}} set to `collapsed`, this value behaves like `ridge`.

> **Note:** When `<outline-style>` is used as the value type for {{cssxref("outline")}} and {{cssxref("outline-style")}} properties, it is similar to `<line-style>`, but does not support `hidden` and includes the `auto` value. When `auto` is set, the user-agent defined `<line-style>` value is used.

## Examples

The first example demonstrates all the `<line-style>` keyword values. The second example demonstrates how some line style colors may display in unexpected ways.

### Defining line styles

This example shows all the `<line-style>` values as values for the CSS {{cssxref("border-style")}} and {{cssxref("column-rule-style")}} properties.

#### HTML

> This example uses multiple {{HTMLElement( "<div>" )}} elements, each with a class representing the `<line-style>` value that is being demonstrated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example uses multiple {{HTMLElement( "div" )}} elements, each with a class representing the `<line-style>` value that is being demonstrated.
```

I think this is what is breaking the other macros on the page

```css hidden
div {
  display: flex;
  gap: 1em;
  list-style: none;
  align-items: center;
}
div:first-of-type {
  display: none;
}

p:first-of-type {
  text-align: center;
  line-height: 5em;
}
p {
  width: 10em;
  height: 5em;
  background-color: palegoldenrod;
}
```

```css
p {
  padding: 5px;
  border: double 7px #bada55;
}
p + p {
  columns: 3;
  column-gap: 20px;
  column-rule: double 7px;
  border-color: #000000;
}
.none p {
  border-style: none;
  column-rule-style: none;
}
.hidden p {
  border-style: hidden;
  column-rule-style: hidden;
}
.dotted p {
  border-style: dotted;
  column-rule-style: dotted;
}
.dashed p {
  border-style: dashed;
  column-rule-style: dashed;
}
.solid p {
  border-style: solid;
  column-rule-style: solid;
}
.double p {
  border-style: double;
  column-rule-style: double;
}
.groove p {
  border-style: groove;
  column-rule-style: groove;
}
.ridge p {
  border-style: ridge;
  column-rule-style: ridge;
}
.inset p {
  border-style: inset;
  column-rule-style: inset;
}
.outset p {
  border-style: outset;
  column-rule-style: outset;
}
```

#### Result

> {{EmbedLiveSample("Line_styles", "500", "800")}}

Author: ```suggestion
{{EmbedLiveSample("Defining_line_styles", "500", "800")}}
```

Notice that the black border is not always black.

### Defining line styles and colors

This example demonstrates line-style and color choice. With some `<line-style>` keyword values, the color of the line may not be what you expect. To create the required "3D" effect of `groove,` `ridge`, `inset`, and `outset` styles when displaying these values in black or white, user agents use different color calculations than any other color-line combinations.

#### HTML

> This example uses multiple `<div>`elements, each with a different `border-color` set as an inline [`style`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/style).

Author: ```suggestion
This example uses multiple {{HTMLElement( "div" )}} elements, each with a different `border-color` set as an inline [`style`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/style).
```

```html-nolint hidden
<section>
```

```html
<div style="border-color: #000000"></div>
```

```html hidden
<div style="border-color: #000001"></div>
<div style="border-color: #ffffff"></div>

<div style="border-color: #ff00ff"></div>
<div style="border-color: #ffff00"></div>
<div style="border-color: #00ffff"></div>

<div style="border-color: #cc33cc"></div>
<div style="border-color: #cccc33"></div>
<div style="border-color: #33cccc"></div>

<div style="border-color: #ff0000"></div>
<div style="border-color: #00ff00"></div>
<div style="border-color: #0000ff"></div>

<div style="border-color: #cc3333"></div>
<div style="border-color: #33cc33"></div>
<div style="border-color: #3333cc"></div>

<div style="border-color: #993333"></div>
<div style="border-color: #339933"></div>
<div style="border-color: #333399"></div>
</section>
```

#### CSS

> The four sides of each list item have a different `<line-style>` value, and each list item has a different {{cssxref("color_value", "&lt;color>")}} value. We use [generated content](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/content) to display the CSS declared inline.

Author: ```suggestion
The four sides of each `<div>` have a different `<line-style>` value, and each list item has a different {{cssxref("color_value", "&lt;color>")}} value. We use [generated content](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/content) to display the CSS declared inline.
```

```css hidden
section {
  display: flex;
  flex-wrap: wrap;
  gap: 1em;
  text-transform: uppercase;
  font-family: monospace;
}
```

```css
div {
  border-width: 10px;
  border-style: inset groove ridge outset;
  padding: 5px;
}
div::before {
  content: attr(style);
}
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample("Line_style_colors", "500", "400")}}

Notice that the almost-black color of `#000001` may be different from the actual black, and the contrast between the dark and light edges is more noticeable when using lighter colors.

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- [CSS backgrounds and borders](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Backgrounds_and_Borders) module
- [CSS basic user interface](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Basic_User_Interface) module

> - [CSS multi-column layout](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Columns) module

Author: ```suggestion
- [CSS multi-column layout](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Columns) module

```
